Talking about graphic design and my influences and mentors, I can easily rattle off several names that make my eyes light up at their mention. Herbert Bayer, Saul Bass, Paul Rand, El Lissitsky, Lazlo Moholy-Nagy, Theo van Doesburg, Jan Tschichold, Eric Spiekermann, I could go on, Massimo Vignelli, seriously. With the exceptions of Mr. Spiekermann and Mr. Vignelli, you could say that, yes, all my heroes are dead. But when we shift over to web design, that is thankfully not the case.

Back story: 
This article started several months ago when a colleague asked about the references I used when I made my change from print to web. I thought about it for half a day and pounded out an email lush with links to several online resources and books that I helped me break into web technologies. Among them were a list of usual suspects that have a strong voice in the community. These are their names and a bit about them.

Paul Irish
Works on Google's Chrome and JQuery. Also known for a small side project know as the HTML5 Boilerplate ;-)
Extremely smart guy with loads of knowledge in front-end technologies and a witty sense of humor. I've had several laugh-outloud moments viewing his videos. 

Chris Coyier
Works for Wufoo (and by default, Survey Monkey). Host of CSS-Tricks and co-host of The Shop Talk Show.
I would dare to say that this guy is the zen master of Cascading Style Sheets. I would bet you my street cred that if you had a question about CSS, Chris has covered in on his site. His radio show with Dave Rupert is fun to listen to as well as informative.

Eric Meyer
If Chris Coyier is the zen master of CSS, then Eric Meyer is the Dalai Lama. He has years upon years of experience and fathered the CSS Reset. Be sure to tell him thank you ;-)

Jakob Nielson
Father Usability. He himself is a standard. His web site may not be the most aesthetically inclined, but his research and teachings on usability are sourced by thousands in the community. If someone has made a statement of usability to you, 9—10 they are referencing an article he has written.

Inayaili de León
Works for Canonical (the company that delivers Ubuntu) and is very knowledgeable about CSS. She has written several articles for distinguished online magazines about web design and has delivered speeches at conferences. A good source for CSS issues.

Divya Manian
Formerly employed as Web Opener at Opera, she now works for Adobe's webplatform team. She is knowledgeable in various web technologies and has written and spoken a great deal on web standards, even to the reproach of popular opinion. She has done much to move the web forward—see also HTML Boilerplate.

Lea Verou
Is the co-founder of a small web advertising company named Fresset Ltd and is passionate about web standards, especially JavaScript and CSS3. She speaks at conferences and writes articles on these subjects for various renown online magazines.

This is just a starter list—a list of people that I wish someone would have given me when I first began learning front-end web technologies. There are more that could be added to this list (like Luke Wroblewski, Ethan Marcotte, Nicole Sullivan, Jonathan Snook) but then the list would go on for ever... That would be overwhelming! If there is someone that you think I've missed or that you do not agree with, write me here.

Cheers!

----------------

Luke Wroblewski
Has worked for eBay, Yahoo! and Benchmark Capital. He is an establish author and frequent speaker at conferences such as An Event Apart.
He is undoubtedly most known for his book Mobile First. It is one of three that he has written, but has had the biggest influence due to the rise of mobile technology and its effect on the Web.

Ethan Marcotte
Freelance designer, developer, writer and speaker.
Ethan wrote the book titled Responsive Web Design. It has pretty much tipped web design on its ear and addresses the much needed approach to addressing mobile and desktop interface needs within a single code base. Revolutionary!